---
title: How to write in a Persuasive Way
tags: [Persuaide]
style: fill
color: success
description: Become Persuasive by following these Writing Guidelines.
---

## Info: The Persuasion Score indicates how you compare to 20.000 other persuasive mails. It aggregates below dimensions into your individual persuasion score.

Dimensions:
Logic: The usage of logical terms helps your message to be more structured. This score indicates how many logical terms (e.g., then, next, another, besides, and, or, instead, ...) you are using compared to other persuasive authors. [Read more]
Goodwill: You want to provide helpful information to your recipient, so that they also help you. This score indicates how you are using outcome orientation (e.g., expressed via sentence structures such as: finally, in conclusion, for this reason) or cues of scarcity (e.g., deadline, later, next week) to provide conclusions or temporal orientation to them.  [Read more]
Language: Simple language helps your recipient to understand your thoughts. This score indicates how difficult it is for both native and non-native speakers to read your text. For instance, it is evaluated how many words you are using before the main verb with more correlating with higher difficulty. [Read more]
Trust: Your recipient will collaborate with you if you create a sense of trust. This score indicates to which degree you are using trust building measures. These can be cues of politeness, emphatic terms (you, them, their) or ask questions in comparison to other persuasive writers. [Read more]
