---
title: Moving back to the EU
tags: [Travel]
style: fill
color: secondary
description: Our plan of moving back to the EU 
---

## Our European Dream: Buying a Flat in Vienna

Joy and I have always been in love with the European way of life. The focus on community, enjoying time off, and the incredible quality of life have a strong pull. Cities like Vienna particularly capture our hearts, with their stunning beauty and rich cultural offerings.

## Finding Our Vienna Oasis

We've always dreamed of making Vienna our home. Our ideal living space would be a spacious 100qm (roughly 1,000 sqft) apartment. Our explorations led us to the charming 9th district, where we found fantastic options around the 700k EUR mark.

Now, the question on many of your minds might be: How can we make this dream a reality, using money earned in the US?

## The Process: A Guide for Expats and Real Estate Enthusiasts

Buying an apartment in Vienna as an American requires a bit of planning  Here's a breakdown of the journey:

### Step 1: The US Banking Base

You'll need a US bank account to collect your earnings. If you don't have one, it's time to open one!

### Step 2: Currency Exchange – Finding the Best Deal

To get your US Dollars (USD) working in Austria, you'll need to exchange them for Euros (EUR). Here are your options:

- Banks: While convenient, banks often have less favorable exchange rates and higher fees.
- Specialized Services: Companies like TransferWise, OFX, and Currencies Direct are designed for international transfers and usually offer better rates.
- Online Platforms: PayPal or XE Money Transfer provide another easy alternative.

### Step 3: Money on the Move – Transferring Funds to Austria

Choose your exchange service, then it's time to make the transfer! To streamline the process, consider:

An Austrian Bank Account: Very handy if you're serious about the move, allowing for easy management of property-related expenses.
Borderless Accounts: Online banks like N26 and Revolut let you hold multiple currencies, including EUR.

### Step 4: Navigating the Rules

FinCEN: US citizens, take note! You must report foreign assets exceeding $50,000 using Form 114 (FBAR) annually.
Austria's Regulations: Dive into laws like the Anti-Money Laundering Act (AML) and the Foreign Exchange Act (FEA). You might need to show proof of income to comply.

### Step 5: Sealing the Deal

Funds in Austria? Check! Now you're ready to purchase that dream Vienna flat. Have your identity documents, income proof, and employment details ready.

### Step 6: The Tax Factor

Buying property overseas has tax implications. It's wise to consult a tax professional who understands both US and Austrian tax laws.

Let's Make it Happen!

With these steps in mind, you're well on your way to transforming your US earnings into a beautiful Viennese apartment. Keep a close eye on regulations, as they can change, and you'll be sipping Viennese coffee in your new home before you know it!