---
tags: [Coding]
title: Paving the Future of Data Analysis with Large Language Models
description: Large Language Models revolutionize data analytics by simplifying SQL queries.
style: fill
color: secondary
---

In the rapidly expanding field of data analytics, there is an increasing demand for intuitive and accessible tools. Most recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as a game-changer, particularly in the domain of SQL analytics. Leveraging the formidable capabilities of LLMs is revolutionizing how we approach data analysis, transforming it from a technical endeavor to a more user-friendly experience.

Most notably, this transformation is simplifying data analytics for individuals who may not possess a deep understanding of SQL, thereby democratizing the field. By enabling individuals from diverse backgrounds to manipulate and probe databases, LLMs are magnifying the reach and utility of data analytics. Furthermore, this approach improves data processing efficiencies and intensifies intelligent database capabilities.

So how does this work? Let's delve into a practical example.

Let's say a user wants to find out, "What was the most popular show on Netflix?". In traditional analytics, this query would need to be translated into SQL, a skill not everyone possesses. However, the application of LLMs allows this question in plain English to be efficiently translated into a SQL query:

```sql
SELECT show_title FROM netflix GROUP BY show_title ORDER BY SUM(weekly_views) DESC LIMIT 1
```
This query, when executed, provides the user with a straight-forward answer - `{"show_title":"Extraction 2"}`.

The advancement in this space signifies a significant shift in the landscape of data analytics. Threading the power of LLMs into SQL analytics, we are ushering in an era where natural language is at the forefront of data querying.

However, while this initial implementation offers unprecedented avenues for making data analytics more accessible, there is scope for further development and integration. We can better assist users by explaining what the queries derived from their questions mean and interpreting the results delivered. Additionally, visualizing these results through interactive graphs could enhance user experience and comprehension.

Currently, join queries are not supported in our setup. In future iterations, however, we could aim to factor these in to broaden the functionality and coverage of types of questions we can answer. Additionally, by employing specific SQL dialects in our model training, such as Oracle SQL, we can fit the application to more specific data environments.

Apart from the current technologies utilized for this project, there are countless other frameworks, products, and packages that could be integrated into the system, given their compatibility and the specific needs of the users. For instance, LangChain's new LangChain Expression Language, or LCEL, and GPTs released by OpenAI in November 2023 could be potentially integrated into future versions for enhanced results.

Moreover, with the growth of LLMs and their increasing integrations with varying systems, there are several use cases to consider. They range from improving the querying interface for non-technical users through a professional front-end like AWS Amplify to tracking user interactions to understand the system's efficacy and areas of improvement.

In conclusion, the power of LLMs holds immense potential in transforming the landscape of data analytics. Translating natural language queries into SQL and thus making data analytics a more accessible task is just the dawn of this revolutionary synergy. Therewith, expect the extraordinary evolution of marketing technology where data democratisation and accessibility become inherent components.  

To learn more about this fascinating synergy between Large Language Models and SQL, I invite you to watch my webinar linked below - diving into the limitless possibilities this breakthrough approach bestows on the field of data analytics.

[[Webinar Link]](https://datahack.analyticsvidhya.com/contest/datahour-natural-language-to-sql-analyzing-netflix-movies-with-llms/)

Author: Sebastian (Seb) Duerr, a machine learning specialist with a robust background in natural language processing (NLP). His prolific research in NLP and data analytics at the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence has contributed to authoring seven peer-reviewed articles.