---
tags: [Travel]
title: Alaska Plan
description: This is a template plan for our trip to Alaska.
style: fill
color: primary
---

## Alaska Plan

### Day 1: Arrival in Anchorage (Thursday, Aug 29)

- **Morning:** Flight arrives at 9:47 am. Pick up any rental equipment you may need, grab a light breakfast at Snow City Cafe, known for their healthy options like Kodiak Benedict with salmon. 
- **Afternoon:** Visit the Anchorage Museum to get a cultural and historical overview of Alaska. It's a great starting point to understand the rich tapestry of Alaska's heritage and the unique landscapes you'll be exploring.
- **Evening:** Take a stroll along the Tony Knowles Coastal Trail to enjoy stunning views of the Cook Inlet and possibly see some wildlife. For dinner, head over to Moose's Tooth Pub & Pizzeria for an Alaskan twist on some classic dishes; they also offer a variety of salads for a lighter option.

### Day 2: Wildlife and Glaciers (Friday, Aug 30)

- **Morning:** Head to the Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center. Opening at 9 am, it’s about an hour's drive south of Anchorage. Here, you can see bears, moose, bison, and more. Pack a healthy breakfast or enjoy something from their cafeteria.
- **Afternoon:** Continue south to Whittier (about a 20-minute drive from the Conservation Center) to catch a Glacier Cruise which will give you breathtaking views of glaciers and an array of sea life including whales, sea otters, and seals. Bring snacks or lunch from Anchorage.
- **Evening:** Return to Anchorage. Dinner at Middle Way Cafe, offering plenty of healthy, organic, and vegetarian options.

### Day 3: Hiking and Scenery (Saturday, Aug 31)

- **Morning and Afternoon:** Drive to Chugach State Park for a day of hiking. You can choose a trail that matches your level of experience and desired challenge. The Flattop Mountain Trail is a popular choice for its panoramic views of Anchorage. Pack healthy snacks and a lunch to enjoy along the way.
- **Evening:** Enjoy dinner at Ginger, known for its Pacific Rim cuisine and fresh, local ingredients. Their menu features a variety of seafood dishes and vegetarian options.

### Day 4: Explore Anchorage and Departure (Sunday, Sep 1)

- **Morning:** Breakfast at Kaladi Brothers Coffee, a local chain with great coffee and light, healthy breakfast options.
- **Morning/Late Morning:** Visit the Alaska Native Heritage Center. Learn more about Alaska's indigenous people's culture and traditions through stories, dance, and art. 
- **By 12:30 pm:** Make your way to the airport for your flight back to Seattle at 12:30 pm.